---
authors:
- J. David Giese
slug: 2022-03-04-what-is-a-510k
status: Published
summary: ''
title: What is a 510(k)?
---

To bring a device to the US market, you begin by classifying your
device. The FDA classifies devices into different product codes. Each
product code has a three-letter identifier and a description of what
devices are categorized under it. E.g., "LLZ" is the product code for
"Medical image management and processing systems". Once you've
identified the product code that applies to your device, you can look up
what regulatory controls apply to it. Usually this just depends on the
*device class. *In the United States, medical devices fall into three
class:

-   Class I: Lowest risk
-   Class II: Moderate risk
-   Class III: Highest risk

One common regulatory control is to do *premarket submissions*. A
premarket submission is a set of documents that you send to the FDA,
which they use to evaluate whether your device is *safe and effective*.
There are a few different types of premarket submissions:

-   Lowest-risk devices usually don't require any premarket submission.
-   Moderate-risk devices usually require a *510(k) *or a *De Novo*
    premarket submission.
-   Highest-risk devices usually require the most stringent type of
    premarket submission, a *PMA*.

Let's assume you have a moderate-risk device. If it's *substantially
equivalent* to an existing device, you can do a 510(k) premarket
submission. Otherwise, you'd need to do a De Novo premarket submission.

The purpose of a 510(k) is to demonstrate substantial equivalence. "A
claim of substantial equivalence does not mean the new and predicate
devices needs to be identical. FDA first establishes that the new and
predicate devices have the same intended use and any differences in
technological characteristics do not raise different questions of safety
and effectiveness. FDA then determines whether the device is as safe and
effective as the predicate device by reviewing the scientific methods
used to evaluate differences in technological characteristics and
performance data."

# Where you can learn more:

The "[How to Study and Market Your
Device](https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/how-study-and-market-your-device)"
page on the FDA's website outlines the overall process in more detail
and discusses a few types of premarket submissions that weren't
discussed here.

The "[Classify Your Medical
Device](https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/overview-device-regulation/classify-your-medical-device)"
page on the FDA's website discusses the three device classes in more
detail.

Our "[FDA Browser](https://fda.innolitics.com)" tool is designed to make
it easier to classify your medical device and identify a 510(k)
predicate.

The "[Premarket Notification
510(k)](https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/premarket-submissions-selecting-and-preparing-correct-submission/premarket-notification-510k)"
page includes a lot of additional information about 510(k)s in
particular.
